welcome to GUI and in web browsers we
click all four 29th of January 2020 we
got action packed agenda this week and
people parked gallery view on our call
so if anyone has any issues or topics
you want to discuss this week Adam to
agenda to make it faster I'll just start
with the first one which was added by me
so it's more like a PSA for weather
community that a lot of things related
to us in our age we factor will finally
land in like developer facing and and
user libraries namely Jess ipfs and Jess
the p2p
so it's just a quick notice that there
are API changes and details of those API
changes are in release notes for
respective religions everyone spent time
to document this so I won't make it
longer than I need to it's pretty well
written Allen also made a guide for GSA
PFS users who want to meet the users
user developers who and who would like
to immigrate to this new API there are
some best practices and some commands
specific tips how to do that and final
thought I want to end this section with
is that our libraries got really small
after district factor for example
disrespect a TFS HTTP client and
pre-release version after the factor
gets
pretty small after all the new stuff
it's dropped so some of those releases
already landed some will be released
very soon next steps for like browsers
and GUI folks will be to go over IP FS
web UI companion and desktop and switch
them to some there already PRS but
that's like ongoing effort if anyone has
any questions related to immigration
probably a good place would be to
comment on the release issue for now our
our ask on IRC Channel that's the end of
PSA about I think away I hope it was not
long but I feel it's really important to
mention it everywhere it doesn't affect
you know backwards compatibility so you
know I'm assuming that this is a pretty
this is a breaking change from consumer
API standpoint so people that are
upgrading to these newer versions need
to rewrite all they're eligible to use
wait yeah so like to be very specific
what is breaking the breaking change is
the program programmatic interface in
JavaScript we don't change HTTP API we
don't change like core IP is on the high
level like abstraction level we just
changed the way those core IP eyes are
represented in J's so instead of using
old promises and callbacks we are using
modern a single wait a construct and
that was also opportunity to do some
cleanup so some stuff got simplified
hopefully it will be better for people
easier how far do you know how how far
away we are from from that work being
completed in the other bits that are
listed here so the PPE the web UI and
desktop is that the loop EDP works are
long ongoing right but have we it really
started and migrating or other projects
to these kpi's like where do I stop I
think there's a pier for either web UI
or desktop the thing is like above ipfs
web UI and desktop will only need to
switch to the new HTTP client ipfs
companion needs to switch to both you
know HTTP client but also it uses simple
JSA PFS in brave and in chromium so that
will take bit more effort about
hopefully those are the same changes
like the way companion is implemented it
does not really care is it using a
client or a full note it's the same
programmatic interface so it's just one
change of the way we handle programmatic
interface and we should be good q1 OPRS
maybe I I am done
this this is an odd quarter we're having
a meeting soon team people in one place
but until then knowing knowing what the
goals are for these specific areas for
for q1 it's gonna be really important
especially given that there's some
moving around of teams and priorities
and such but specifically around the
desktop and web UI making sure that we
have an okay are for Jared they I guess
making sure that we have the same
approach that we've had before for the
last two quarters for these specific
areas which is ensuring that there's no
breakage as new versions of Co ipfs are
released and given there's a very
important version of Co I profess when
we have the the new dot that released
the this week but then preparing for 0.5
and making sure that that these web UI
and desktop function correctly with 0.5
there's going to be a priority so we
should probably have them okay are
specifically around that for this
quarter
but I think that the Anton Anton testing
landing to some extent might meet the
requirement that there look for sure
part of like switching to a sink those
newer api's will be part of the
maintenance job and Todd and also like
tests we had some I think Hugo linked
another project which could enable us to
test on both Firefox and Safari I think
so we could like bundle although all
this work into some like maintenance
okiya next that sounds great yeah for
some reason I was not able to like find
the right line guiding principles for
browser integrations should I do this
one or they wanted to be yeah sure so I
mean I'll give a quick context and then
and then you can add some more detail
what we did we had some changes in the
November timeframe I think around kind
of how we handled redirects for in
companion when we encountered a DNS
linked site so this brought up some
questions around how we do do URLs
generally ongoing security model
questions we've had around path based
security model path based gateway and
the migration to CID and subdomain to be
able to ensure origin isolation so for
example if you have a two websites that
you both load through the Gateway and
then see IDs are in paths they share the
same origin which means they can read
each other's local storage they have say
cookie sessions as a rin web browser
world that's not very significant
problem so the short term solution here
was to move to see IDs and subdomains
which means that every cid has its own
origin this guarantees the isolation and
safety of applications that are actually
running and not static content and in in
these urls but
that came a conversation around what
does that mean for architectural locking
like what what kind of what kind of
architectural decisions or have been
made as a side effect of moving to that
kind of a model how does it affect our
long-term ability towards better
integration with the web what does it
mean for an application model for ipfs
from a from a threat standpoint if we
had ipfs as a native protocol does it
have things like cookies and local
storage to do these concepts even
translate to a world where we're
thinking about what native ipfs means or
is that just is it just a static content
delivery protocol we we don't really
have a lot of answers for for where we
want to be yet I think a lot of us are
really interested when an application
model right PFS could be but until then
we have this existing web application
model and all of the world that it pulls
in with it so including this origin
based security model so this is what
this prompted is a conversation around
how we make changes to how companion
works how we make decisions around how
browser integration works generally in
the HTTP web when loading ipfs content
and so I told maybe you have some
thoughts around we just kind of really
started talking about this but how we
how we how that actually is articulated
in our work here when we're making
decisions about how things like
companion should work yeah I think like
for a long time we've been following
something a lot of people call the
upgrade path which may not be the best
wording I mean it's technically correct
we want to like upgrade the web and move
move the web towards a content
addressing other things but that's not
realistically how things tend to work if
you look back how new technologies got
adopted the old technologies are still
around and all those like on the upgrade
path all the intermediate steps are
either around or have been around for a
long long time and the thing is that now
when we
our deciding on how to tackle some or
how to solve some problems along the the
upgrade path we need to do that with
awareness that those decisions will be
around we will not like we could
duplicate them but people will continue
using them and also the actual like
coexistence of those news upgrade stages
does it like process threat to projects
adoption for example in this subdomain
discussion historically we had a very
clear situation where ipfs addressing
followed leaky unix conventions so we
basically had a root and all addresses
were mounted on the same route was it
like ipfs IP NS there are some
discussions about slash HTTP and
addressing that way that the thing was
then we've introduced HTTP gateways so
it was pretty easy to simply take this
UNIX off we and stuck it into the path
part of URL and that was pretty elegant
but at the same time opened a lot of
issues due to the fact we ignored
original selection and now when we are
reintroducing our original ation we are
sort of like breaking this pretty
abstraction that someone could simply
like highlight and copy the path which
were had a pretty big like usability
value like people could simply change
the domain name or or like copy and
paste the path to a different like
domain or override the path or added a
different gateway and content would
still still load now when we sort of
like took CID and stuck it on the left
side of this domain it's like two things
to copy it's not if you copy the path
it's not the full path because the road
on the domain and that's maybe a long
but I think that good example of the cat
SKS of which which could help us to
define those questions how do we what
questions do we ask ourselves when we
make those decision decisions was it
like Worf like the security gain who was
it like more important than this
usability probably from from like a
general sanity way of looking at things
but at the same time we've lost on the
UX part and then how can we either
mitigate that or at least how do we
rationalize to ourselves taking those
seed backs on one front
like each alright you can improving on
the other front from those but others
better perspective when there's like
either a native integration or things
like that we could copy a different URL
than the one that's present to the user
there are like solutions but the first
step is to think about those like actual
architectural logins that we introduced
by making those changes
not sure if you I helped at all but but
I feel like illustrating why this
subdomain gateway situation was
problematic and raise those questions I
feel we should like define some define
some guiding principles probably like
publish them on ipfs in web browsers
will get help to repo readme or
someplace like that just to have it at
hand when we have to make similar
decision at some point in the future I
think that's that that those are
my thoughts I have some thoughts on what
those guiding principles should be we
had the historical decisions on like
addressing regression paths but we've
never wrote them so probably writing 10
pounds a good idea
that I think that was super helpful for
talking about concrete examples of where
the user experience conflicts with other
goals and how at the very least these
principles give us awareness of the
trade-offs were making as opposed to
just making the change to be able to fix
the thing reactively at the time and I
think that that's really important
that'll help
well maybe we should put this on the put
this on the agenda for the team upcoming
team Meetup
thirty minutes just to or an hour or
something like that
during that week to hammer out what
these principles might be action item in
the meantime there's another agenda item
you've added I can talk about the that
item too but if you could introduce it
it would be helpful
last one yes yes so as you know there
are the kind of the topology that we
have for for our BFS and web browsers
right now is there's really this
combination of IP of us companion and
that give us desktop and you run ipfs
companion those way to detect and ipfs
URL and then intercept that request
route it over to IP fast desktop or
whatever local demon you have running
get that response and then just play it
back to the user in the browser this
topology results in a couple of things
first and foremost is that the the URL
that the person typed in whether that's
Doc's done ipfs dot IO or IP bus gateway
URL gets redirected to a local host URL
so from a from a usability New York
standpoint it's already a little a
little funky normal people seeing
localhost it's not really in the state
that we want to want to be in for the
long term that's an definitely
intermediary stage for from that
perspective but also it means that
there's a bunch of quirks and how local
host is handled in browsers with regards
to security model redirects all kind of
capability detection you know that are
not stee the both novel not standard
across browsers there's some differences
there but also not even implementing
existing standards to spec so you have
both common both interoperability and
spec compliance issues that start to
crop up so we've been trying to now be
aware of what those are kind of where
they're blocking us and where we need to
be able to poke at browser vendors to be
able to get some of this stuff fixed on
that and the gecko side there's there's
a few bugs here and they've actually
kind of been making some progress
recently and I think Lydell you poked on
some of those which was good but I
for me it's kind of like I would love to
be able to step back and before like
leaning too hard into into localist
areas at least have like a more cohesive
either it's either a speck or at least a
some document written up around how we
use localhost what the features and
capabilities we can expect or need are
so that we can present a single unified
view that as well-documented around the
behavior that we need or the behavior
that we expect and how we use localhost
in our topology
I think of the last part that would also
be like what is it what is that upgrade
path look like where do we actually want
to be the if there's the it seems like
then the world of browsers is we want to
end up in a place where it's ipfs colon
slash slash cid and then and then and
then path what what is what does that
look like from communicating what that
again we get back to this idea of a lack
of a security model or application model
that we have really for a threat model
for for what that neither protocol
handling looks like but right now we
can't kind of use local houses localhost
as a proxy for understanding what that's
going to be as at least a midway
integration point so but i think it when
I'd probably like to get to us at the
very least documented X documentation
for what our expectations are right now
and what the limitations of browsers are
thank you that that's like super super
useful in introduction to the problem
space and the only thing I want to add
is those nuances which I linked those
nuances I linked to the issue specific
to Firefox
mainly because like the Firefox is
remaining piece of the puzzle so the
problem of addressing local node local
gateway right now we are basically
exposing HTTP gateway to ipfs on
localhost and we used we use that it's
basically localhost IP and port 8080 the
problem with that is it's a single
origin so when subdomains will land we
hope to have subdomains on localhost so
CID that idea first at localhost
that solves the original problem however
there's a separate problem space related
to secured contexts so secure context is
secure context is another security
abstraction in web browsers that acts as
a gatekeeper to some more advanced api's
and some like operations either from
from the page itself the things that you
could do from the JavaScript the the
types of requests you could do the
access to cookies the local storage that
you have secure context in general has a
very formal definition but the short
version a short pragmatic version is
that it's either a page loaded from
secure transport so HTTP with a valid
certificate or a localhost and there's a
cave at a small like asterisk around
localhost means so in the initial html5
spec it it was just stated that
everything local says that the secure
context is page loaded from HTTP or page
loaded from localhost but then people
realize that the local house itself is
just a hostname which get gets passed to
operating systems resolver and gets
localhost IP from that and in theory
some like malicious software or someone
could set up operating system or provide
a malicious DHT server which could
return different IP and you no longer
you think you are talking to your local
machine over look back address but you
are talking with arbitrary okey so then
to sort of like to plug plug that
security hole the spec was change and
explicitly stated that only 120 7.00 1
and Colin Colin 1 so ipv4 and ipv6 for
local host IPs
those are hard-coded in the spec and
those are hard-coded in browser whether
in browser engines
so only IPS are secure contexts and the
local host host name for a long time was
not and that's why we are revisiting
subdomain gateways this year because it
was quite recently when Chrome and
Firefox switched to this idea that
localhost should not be passed to like
local operating system resolver we
already know that it should be a local
look back
so the browser itself should just like
seamlessly translated to local host IP
and when that change got implemented
then browsers are sure this is real
loopback device and then they could flip
the switch and make localhost a secure
context again even when the hostname is
used that's a long way to tell that host
and IP is not interpreted the same by
the web browser but I feel it's useful
to know that all this stuff happened in
the past and why that why it's now that
we are making this change and not years
back before before localhost was not
secured context so the last piece of the
puzzle is that localhost it's the name
is secure context in both Firefox and
chromium however only in chromium
subdomains on localhost are interpreted
as secure contexts so Firefox is like
lagging behind with implementing those
changes to guarantee that local host is
the local host and not something else
and then populating this blessing that
this is a secure context to its
subdomains so that's the context for the
issues I linked and like secure context
is pretty important if people want to
load more advanced web apps not like
static pages but like web apps that use
either like web crypto IP eyes or access
more advanced the API is that access to
the camera or things like that if you
want to connect to web sockets as to if
you want to connect to secure web
sockets you need to be insecure context
only JavaScript running in secure
context can connect to secure web web
sockets which means you are not able to
connect to bootstrap nodes of the p2p if
you are not running in running J's a TFS
and jelly p2p in secure context so
that's the context where it's important
and how many like moving pieces are
there even if we like to stop
discussing the subdomains there is this
topic of sacred context and we want
people to be able to redirect like
requests for content addressed stuff on
the web to local gateway and we don't
want people to see that the website
broke because access to some API is
blocked people won't care about the fact
that it's like not no longer sacred
context people we should not break stuff
that people put on the ipfs we probably
should make everything in our power to
make sure if we redirect to local
Gateway to ensure that they like the
pages and the user experience it's not
blocked and we don't decrease like
security isolation that people had on
the regular web I think that's it I I
hope it was useful
thanks for the deep down I really for me
this really kind of begs this question
that we haven't really fully answered
yet which is like what are the
expectations around an application model
and the capabilities of an application
model and the compatibility of the web
application model for an IP FS resource
if you live something's like so minutes
so much of ipfs is used outside of the
web context where there's no
expectations of any of this actually
working like it's not being rendered in
the context of my user visible web page
but here when you do load and ipfs
resource through an HTTP URL there's an
expectation that things like late
javascript files will be loaded and this
code executed or are things like liquid
CSS files will be loaded and applied by
the rendering engine so you pull in this
entire all these assumptions about world
a when really you're just trying to load
a resource from world B which is ipfs
where we actually have no defined
requirements around any type of handling
what the expectations are and what the
content is from a mime type perspective
let alone how it will be treated in a
specific rendering context we we dictate
none of that we're just a pipe at that
point
mr. Nesbitt would it be a useful
exercise to kind of imagine what
would be made if ipfs the web browser
was made without kind of considering
legacy and like integration choices as
looking at like obviously the upgrade
path eventually gets to where you want
to be but where would you ideally want
to be versus where can you like
obviously some doors can just be shut
and like oh it's incredibly hard to open
again but like maybe that could be just
a useful brainstorm tip to kind of go
like in an ideal world we'd be here in
an ideal world if you put a web page if
you try and load a web page through the
gateway that references other like
Google CDN for jQuery like do we even
want like do you need to opt-in to load
that stuff rather than that be the
default which like if you questioning
the way that you're doing the web then
maybe like that's an interesting kind of
exercise yeah yeah there's a really good
point that that's why a lot of times I
try to couch this conversation in the
context of what an IP fest colon slash
slash should result in that because that
that's a point where we get to redefine
what those expectations are we we we
don't have to accept the old model and
we really should learn from what did or
did not work and and that vision of what
we think the web and 50 years should be
what will provide the longevity and the
characteristics of content delivery in
the safer world safer more resilient way
we submit again the this is a long long
question we're gonna I'm not gonna
answer it in this meeting but local host
and how it's handled browser renders in
different browsers this is a really good
example of where we really start to hit
these barriers and the fact that we
don't have a well-defined application
model for I profess start to ping em we
started
hit hit we start to really feel that gap
in our plan I also like fine that andrew
has very good good idea with thinking
how would we create this browsing
experience if we forgot about like
existing legacy situation and the fact
that pretty nice over overlap between
that line of thinking and the work that
you are doing the trick with browser
design guidelines namely the stuff that
we've already identified that like the
on the old web you got those like
guarantee of transport not being changed
but but you don't actually get any
integrity guarantees in the ipfs you you
would have to come up with some ways of
communicating that that there are
integrity guarantees and transport
guarantees however you have a different
privacy guarantees than you have in the
old model also could be a workshop
14-week just yeah it'll be fun
one of the other things that really came
up out of you know that with the browser
design guidelines we really kind of
level set we like what does the world
look like today let's be really clear
and formal about I didn't find what the
expectations assumptions and what's
changeable and not in the concept of a
browser URL bar and one of the gaps that
came up there or not really gap but one
of the one of the really important parts
was this added out an integrity
guarantee new to the web but also a
a complete deferral of the trust model
so whether we agree with the DNS trust
model which is that you paid somebody
for a certificate that person actually
checked that the owner of the the domain
name actually has the addresses about
business and all the stuff which we all
know really isn't true and the advent of
let's encrypt made it even less true
that that there's any you know trust
built in necessarily from a verification
standpoint that somebody is an actual
real business and somebody what checked
on that and that's the value of that
certificate so that that problem aside
the existing world assumes that trust
model exists and an IP fess we've taken
that trust model where that when do you
put your trust and we put it out of band
it's out of view now and that onus of
that trust is put on the user to be able
to where did I get the C ID from do I
trust that person is that it's all up to
me now as opposed to at least having
like some framework some business
incentive around just leading us down
the blockchain path yeah I'm just
identifying a place where it's a barrier
to adoption for us and we need to be
aware when we're designing a solution
for it so if you're if we've if my job
is to convince a security team and a une
design team at Google
to implement ipfs I need to be able to
explain what the nature of the change in
the user experience is with regards to
how they make decisions should I trust
this URL or not
and right now even though we have a
system for that trust that is fallible
that has known problems there's at least
a system but it with ipfs we've said
what that's out of view not my job
so until we have a better answer for
where to place that trust how to a user
should make decisions around whether if
they should trust what they got from the
CID or not we need to at least design
for it to be like hey this might not be
safe
we can't we can't say either way and
from a design and a security design
standpoint we need to design a user
experience of that that it's very clear
about that
how about how little how we don't know
in order to be able to protect the user
it feels like that at some point and I
don't really know the history and I'd be
interested in finding out if anyone is
aware the IP NS at some point was like
oh this is the quick fix for all of
those things and DNS linked and like was
partly done and then just like has been
never really like completed to the point
of actually being useful for anything
that that that at least coming from like
when I first started looking at the
whole thing last year and especially
thinking about like how does this
connect with with talking to things over
the internet package management but also
for websites is like naming things to
connect with humans is like a
significant point of and then that name
having like having some trust in that
name being reliable and like someone
else's problem or at least like can be
bound the real world is it feels like
he's never really been followed up but I
suspect it's just because we've got
stuck in everything else and haven't
come back around yet
I think it's a interesting observation
that we sort of every time we talk about
this like the presence of ipfs in web
browser and then trusting someone who
gave me a link with a CID for like for
me sort of like the abstract the way I
talked with less technical people was
that like just like right now you are
not pasting URLs with raw IPS to people
you probably want to be pasting or very
rarely be pasting links with Rossy IDs
unless you want like a specific snapshot
of a website so this discussion about
the human readable names is never-ending
and we probably need to figure it out
like today we like IP NS was not an
answer to this problem like it was not
an answer it was not a full answer to a
human readable names problem it was just
a way of having static address that
points at the content that could change
it was just a static pointer at call add
some content and then on top of that we
have DNS link which is basically a
bridge between DNS and IP FS and you
could point either at a Guinness or ipfs
pulse we got of course blockchain
solution which is Ian as her that
requires funding light client which is
not feasible like right now we are not
bundling a Tyrian client with a cubes
companion so basically DNS link is the
only solution for human readable names
and it's bridging that gap from the old
web to the newer the question is is that
enough it feels like at the weakest link
in our entire stack when it comes to the
browser integrations
maybe because we are not adopting DNS
SEC maybe that for a reason I think it's
another topic for a longer discussion we
probably should pause at this if you
want to feel fit into this our also we
need to finish five minutes earlier
today so I'll put a dot on that
conversation here and let's move to the
next one thank you for adding in action
to the notes to discuss this more fully
at our next in person
all right did you do want to talk about
I give as the bronze
yeah uh actually URL to the notes as
well
we are beta testing the FSF grants
program within the area of browsers
connectivity web UI and desktop we have
a number of projects that we have said
we wanted to be able to do X but we
don't have time and we keep not getting
around to doing X if you have ideas for
projects that are either micro grant
status and it can be done under $1,000
us if you have ideas for projects maybe
they're a little bigger that you might
be considered a larger grant that would
be worth investing in or you think
seeing that somebody else who is not
part of I profess appeal might be
investing in or if you just have a
request then you would like people to
bring proposals to the table for a given
technical problem whether anybody out
there might actually see business
document 1 to actually invest real money
behind couldn't see that problem solved
the ipfs difference repo is now open for
business it's currently in beta stage
but there are it's being used for things
like bounties for documentation it's
being used for it's gonna be used for
some of the work that we want to be able
to see happen in our brief integration
as well as a number of other things the
rust ipfs implementation is being
proposed as they profess to have grant
as well so in the course of your work if
there are those things that are project
sized that you think they would be worth
investing in but we don't have the time
to build you that right now because it's
maybe a lower priority than what we have
for this next quarter or to think about
writing it up as the IP fest diffferent
where somebody might walk up have the
relevant experience have the interest in
time and we would be interested in
paying them to be able to do that work
and bring that value and success back to
the project helped us move some of these
some of these things we've had on the
backburner for a long time help us move
them forward even if their experiments I
would encourage you to think of like you
know like one of the things I'd like so
someday we'll just have a bunch of
browsers all running HTTP pages where
they're connected you see ipfs over 80
hg over here TC aid that might be fine
for a given use case it might not be
fine for a use case a but it might be
perfect for use case B especially when a
bunch of people load a bunch of things
up at the same time the same please
might worked out great I would love to
save some experimentation around that so
if you have these types of ideas it is
not even a fully formed idea but I would
like to see something do an experiment
in that area write it up as a possible
different and could be said us or
somebody else wants to perfectly match
with an interested party and fund that
experiment big proof concept I just want
to add that it's not only about like we
as a chief as project early P to peepers
you can propose chunks of work that we'd
like to see but people can propose their
own projects and what's important is
it's not only about a like fully fledged
project but there are those like micro
grants if you have a project which could
have ipfs integration added and you want
to that work to be sponsored that's a
special type of grant that also could be
proposed and it doesn't deliver yeah
there's a like there's an issue like
next cloud is a great example where next
cloud users are subset of them they were
like I just want messed up I'm not that
and I keep meaning to port that from the
IP fest mini projects repo and we've
just moved that issue over into deaf
grant because I think that may be
something where people in that community
would would be really interested in
doing that working so you can happen I
love that idea of integrations as
Democrats
kukuku
I may feel something soon so pretty
exciting I think I think this this next
agenda item is me also this is something
that is more more hand wavy so I meet
with Microsoft regularly they're rolling
out an identity platform solution called
using a technology called side tree and
their implementation of it I think it's
gonna be called ion they announced it
last year and it's basically identity
transactions are aggregated written to
the Bitcoin blockchain and all of the
logs of those transactions are actually
hosted from ipfs nodes that currently
Microsoft is running its JSI PFS running
as a daemon on the server side that
they're using to host these see IDs
basically wanna see IDs are written to
the Bitcoin blockchain right for now as
their initial rollout but I guess they
say you could write it anywhere it's
it's interesting the they're using JSON
ipfs because that's the tool chain and
platform and language that their whole
team and the whole area works with they
are they're all typescript up and down
so they're interested in our typescript
support as well
prototypes for genocide beam us but also
this topology is kind of strange like
not a lot of people are deploying JCAP
fuss on the server running it in
production because J psyche fest doesn't
have two HT support so it can't actually
connect to the actual DHD if the clients
to this implementation bootstrap to
Microsoft's nodes that it's great they
connect to the Microsoft site DFS nodes
they request the CID those nodes
obviously have the CID boom problem
solved however they need to be able to
scale this network farther and further
so they're very interested in in us
implementing more feature parity in gpfs
and and there Jason a p2p is obviously a
huge part of the connectivity standpoint
and some the DHD work as well but also
this topology ends up being confusing to
communicate in in in this use case even
though Jace I profess is not directly
connected to the DHT you can still make
a request for the C IDs from this from
the Bitcoin blockchain that Microsoft is
written there through there's I did a
nice frame
you can form a gateway URL and ask a our
public gateway for example for that CID
and it's possible due to these nodes
being connected to other nodes when they
do an initial period discovery and start
blocking and gathering all these peers
that in these 700 peers there one of
those is are some of those who are going
to be going if I status that are
connected to DHD and therefore this
routing from say Bitcoin blockchain get
the CID ask the public I could fence
gateway for that CID might actually
connect eventually and it will take a
little while but probably resolve by
connecting eventually to one of the
nodes that's connected to excess network
or when they partners were also writing
notes because this is an open open
system not only Microsoft servers are
gonna be there so we have this topology
where they're not actually connected to
DHT but actually the system kind of
works it's not going to work great it
might not work all the time but
communicating about one this the feature
parity thing is kind of a we don't
really have a good solid understanding
of where exactly these connection types
kind of break down and we're just I
professed no it isn't interchangeable
effect IP first node I think some of our
users don't know the differences they're
really and what those differences mean
and they can say stay in something up
implement it they're like hey look it
works
I wrote a client edit bootstrapped it to
my server and this system works but if
they're not connected to go DHT go
connected independent disconnected you
see it somewhere online that gateway
scenario or they actually request that
same CA ID from a gateway might not work
and these types of nuances in
implementation deployment standing up I
professed solutions for whatever your
needs they're here in this case a global
decentralized identity system they're
not clear to implementers and builders I
would love it if anybody has some
resources ideas or work you've done or
work you know of around kind of the
visualization of these typologies of
what these connection limitations are I
would really love to be able to have be
able to point to diagrams interactive
visualizations maybe this is an idea for
a deaf grant even of what how these
connections actually work sometimes so
like in this given scenario
where you have a GSI PFS node running on
a server somewhere it's connected using
our default connection configuration
it's got a few hundred peers that's
connected to then you take a CID that
it's hosting a new public and you ask
for it through the Gateway how does that
routing actually work how does it find
its way from the Gateway all - all the
way to this node that maybe that's even
a jeaious IP fest nodes that's published
it from inside of a web page through the
HTTP HTTP API what are the possible ways
that the request can route through the
system and eventually performance
concerns aside actually connect and
resolve that that content you know I
think the default assumption for a lot
of us that are running IP address in
high volume high production scenarios is
that you just have to run it you just
have to run it go I think that's it but
that's the only way it's gonna work but
that's not really often the that that's
not all the time the case and here we
have a case where we have somebody who's
built something with ipfs but they're
like what we just use JSF S&R it's
working for our use case but it's not
it's not there so and the conversation
would say the cord go team is well well
that's crazy way they just using go ipfs
and there's a whole lot of reasons why
people choose GSI PFS for example when
your entire ecosystem is built in
JavaScript and all your hires and your
hiring pipeline is put in JavaScript and
all your tooling is oriented around
JavaScript there's a huge investment in
JavaScript as an ecosystem and not only
that from programming this perspective
it in Python are the two biggest
ecosystems in that regard so having
really strong support for it is really
important for us from adoption
standpoint then there's also this it's
kind of like network visualization and
and and deployment topology
visualization things so there's a couple
stuff wrapped up in here but I think I
didn't primarily out of this as like I
don't have good tools to be able to
communicate these deployment tell
apologies how that routing actually
works so if you have thoughts ideas
resources that you can share good
examples if you are good at scrawling
and want to draw some of the saddest
with stick figures we can take that to a
designer how to make a prettier but any
help here which wouldn't be so awesome
yeah so I think like you could've talked
about there's multiple things here like
one is like
actual network visualization and that is
something that is currently in the works
from the loop EDP layer is we we are
working on finishing up instrumentation
of whippy-tippy because we need this for
test ground and then that is also going
to be incorporated into a visualizer
that we already have design comps of but
we didn't have the instrumentation to
provide to the team that's going to be
helping us build out that visualization
so we should eventually in the near
future I don't remember the timeline but
it's within the next six months get
instrumentation done so we can hand that
off so that they can plug it in and
actually build out a network visualizer
for this and then I think there's the
second part of this which is like hey if
you want to get content and you end up
getting content but you're not running a
DHT how does that happen and like what's
going on because there's probably like
maybe it's bit swap magic or it's
delegated routing or whatever is going
on here there's like some combination of
things that's getting you that content
and it's usually a combination of things
especially in JSI PFS ipfs there's like
yeah it's all the stuff that we have in
jelly p2p but also we got something for
called preloads so there's the fact that
you can ask some remote nodes to fetch
content to its cache from you and then
you don't really like announce anything
to the HD but effectively by the fact
that that note fetched that content and
stored it in local repo that note
started announcing that stuff to DHT so
that's but that's basically like like
delegated concentrating works no I think
in conjunction with preload nodes so
there's those are like two pieces of the
puzzle one is like
I passively asking for a content and
that's the delegated module from the p2p
and then on the J's ipfs site when you
add the stuff to your local node you can
have a list of pillowed nodes which
automatically will prefetch content from
your note so this diagram that the tree
describes is even more complex and we
will have even more arrows and boxes
there if we not only talk about like
many lodges at EFS but also add this
overlay of like data in ipfs it could be
maybe interactive like toggle you could
like show or hide layers I may be
working on some visuals for brave blog
post which has some of those things like
fill out notes delegated routing modules
for any p2p so that may be like the
first iteration of trying to squeeze as
many boxes into one picture and we will
probably iterate on that and make it
like more generalization which could
have effect at some point be published
on our dogs yeah Jacob can you add links
to the to the notes here to where we can
follow along with that work the p2p
Network officials oh there's always work
yes I think a lot of it it hasn't been
publicized yet but I will
I'm telling some links we have some soft
awesome things yeah this is
unfortunately so much of this currently
is magic but it and stuff like this
magic is a bug yeah well and it's like
yeah it's not really it's not so much
magic I think it's just like it's very
unclear what those stories are right
like when I add content to the network
what's the story for that content
getting onto the network and then what's
the story for it coming back because
it's the more we add to ipfs to like the
more convoluted it's gonna get because
you have something like bit swap which
is just calls like if it
can't find it locally or amongst his
close peers it will go ask the p2p
content routing to find this thing and
Lippi to be content routing could be a
DHT it could be delegated routing it
could be something else in the future
like it could be any series of that and
so it's like plugging it all of that in
and saying like this is specifically
what JSI PFS is going to do and these
are the two stories that get you that
content glad somebody's doing some of
that and we're getting a little bit
closer I think we'll get there
eventually the good thing is that we got
two and a half minutes to spare so great
timing guys thank you for being here and
hopefully see you next time next week
same time it's always great to see all
right